# Learning grain boundary segregation energy spectra in polycrystals



The segregation of solute atoms at grain boundaries (GBs) can profoundly impact the structural properties of metallic alloys, and induce effects that range from strengthening to embrittlement. And, though known to be anisotropic, there is a limited understanding of the variation of solute segregation tendencies across the full, multidimensional GB space, which is critically important in polycrystals where much of that space is represented. Here we develop a machine learning framework that can accurately predict the segregation tendency—quantified by the segregation enthalpy spectrum — of solute atoms at GB sites in polycrystals, based solely on the undecorated (pre-segregation) local atomic environment of such sites. We proceed to use the learning framework to scan across the alloy space, and build an extensive database of segregation energy spectra for more than 250 metal-based binary alloys. The resulting machine learning models and segregation database are key to unlocking the full potential of GB segregation as an alloy design tool, and enable the design of microstructures that maximize the useful impacts of segregation. 



In alloys, the segregation of solute atoms at grain boundaries (GBs) induces structural effects[1,2]that include strengthening[3–5], embrittlement[6,7], corrosion resistance[8,9], and GB phase transitions [10,11]. As such, controlling GB segregation is an essential tool for many engineering applications[12], including, e.g., the thermodynamic stabilization of nanocrystal line alloys against grain growth [13–15]. And, though most technically relevant alloys are used in a polycrystalline form, there is a very limited understanding of GB segregation in polycrystals[16], and a general lack of databases of segregation information relevant to them.

In a polycrystal, the GB network has a variety of site-types that can either promote or inhibit segregation to different degrees, **depending on their unique local atomic environments.** The drive for a solute atom to segregate to a GB site-type (i) is quantified by the **segregation enthalpy** $ΔH^{seg}_i$, which, in solids[17], **is equivalent to the internal energy difference between the solute atom occupying the GB site, and a bulk (intra-grain) site,** $ΔH^{seg}_i\approxΔE^{seg}_i=E^{solute}_{gb,i}-E^{solute}_{c}$, (i.e. the system reduces energy upon segregation) promotes segregation and vice versa. **The spectrum of $ΔE^{seg}_i$ in a polycrystal will determine the extent of equilibrium GB segregation in an alloy[18-20]**. Recently, we have shown this spectrum to be captured by a skew-normal distribution for an Mg solute segregation in an Al polycrystal[20]. However, the computation of these segregation spectra is a resource-intensive task. For example, a $(50 nm)^3$ Al polycrystal with an average grain size of 10 nm has roughly one million GB sites, which translates to a million atomistic calculations, where a solute atom is placed substitutionally at each GB site independently and allowed to relax. This makes the task of investigating different microstructures (i.e. multiple polycrystalline samples) cost-prohibitive for a given alloy.

Here, we propose a machine learning (ML) framework that can accurately predict the relaxed segregation energy of a solute atom in a GB site, solely based on its undecorated (pre-segregation) atomic environment. Our approach is tiered and offers two models. The first is a high-fidelity model that is trained to accurately capture the variation of segregation energy across a large swath of the GB space, and thus can be used to study an alloy system in detail and instantaneously evaluate segregation for different microstructures. The second is an accelerated model that **uses dimensionality reduction** to reproduce the high-fidelity model— with a minimal loss in accuracy — using three orders of magnitude fewer data-points for training (only 100 sites). We use the accelerated approach to scan across the alloy space, and build an extensive database giving GB segregation spectra for all aluminum, magnesium, **and transition metals-based binary alloys for which an interatomic potential exists in the Interatomic Potentials Repository[21,22] of the National Institute of Standards and Technology (NIST) - a total of 259 binary alloys**. This database allows us to identify alloys of interest with minimal computational cost, for which high-fidelity models can be trained and used. The proposed ML framework and the resulting spectral segregation database should provide a general and broadly applicable alloy design toolbox relevant to all material properties impacted by solute segregation. 



